docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Staff Scheduling Documentations

We are happy to have you here! You can find answers to all your questions within this documentation, which is loosely divided into two distinct views: the [**User View**](./user-view) and the [**Developer View**](./developer-view).

If you are primarily interested in using and testing the Automatic Staff Scheduling system, you'll find all the important information in the [User View](./user-view) without delving too deeply into technical details. On the other hand, if you wish to contribute to or further develop this project, be sure to check out the [Developer View](./developer-view).

Please note that as a user, you can always dive deeper into the technical details, and as a developer, you are welcome to revisit the general concepts whenever needed.

## Usage
If you want to try out the automatic creation of the a staff schedule yourself, follow our
"Getting Started Guides":

- [User View - Getting Started Guide](./user-view/getting-started-light-version)
- [Developer View - Getting Started Guide](./developer-view/getting-started-dev)

## Getting an Overview
If you just want to get an overview over the codebase and the problem,
you should start with those guides:

- [Problem Defintion](./user-view/problem-definition)
- [Mathematical Problem Formulation](./developer-view/mathematical-problem-formulation)
- [Codebase Overview](./developer-view/codebase-overview)

Commit message:

added light and dev versions to index.md

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Staff Scheduling Documentations

We are happy to have you here! You can find answers to all your questions within this documentation, which is loosely divided into two distinct views: the [**User View**](./user-view) and the [**Developer View**](./developer-view).

If you are primarily interested in using and testing the Automatic Staff Scheduling system, you'll find all the important information in the [User View](./user-view) without delving too deeply into technical details. On the other hand, if you wish to contribute to or further develop this project, be sure to check out the [Developer View](./developer-view).

Please note that as a user, you can always dive deeper into the technical details, and as a developer, you are welcome to revisit the general concepts whenever needed.

## Usage
If you want to try out the automatic creation of the a staff schedule yourself, follow our
"Getting Started Guides". There are two different versions of our program, with and without
database access.

- Without database access: [Getting Started Guide (Light)](./user-view/getting-started-light-version)
- With database access: [Getting Started Guide](./developer-view/getting-started-dev)

## Getting an Overview
If you just want to get an overview over the codebase and the problem,
you should start with those guides:

- [Problem Defintion](./user-view/problem-definition)
- [Mathematical Problem Formulation](./developer-view/mathematical-problem-formulation)
- [Codebase Overview](./developer-view/codebase-overview)
